we're inside the lxa hospital at the
emergency department here uh and as you
can see it's overcrowded uh I'm joined
by Dr Bushra man uh inside the hospital
she's from panima medical Mission uh
volunteering to help uh people and
medical staff inside the hospital drer
we need to know more about what's going
on inside the emergency department thank
you Hy so um as you can see here there's
extreme overcrowd in the emergency
department um this is actually a time
when it's not really as busy as it could
get especially when there are attacks
nearby um there's limited resources in
the department with only a few doctors
servicing hundreds of patients family
members are everywhere there's not
enough beds for the patients you can see
them either in wheelchairs or uh on the
floor on mats surrounded by their family
members um there are only three doctors
generally in the emergency department so
these doctors are overworked and
understaffed um as you can see here some
of the nurses are helping distribute
some of the medications to the patients
there's certainly not enough medications
to go around um some of the antibiotics
that we want to use that are crucial
aren't available here and also aren't
allowed to be l in in terms of medical
supplies so um it's it's a hospital but
it's barely functioning and it's working
on very limited resources which is
causing a lot of strain um any minute
now the Health Care system is going to
imminently collapse and the millions of
people getting care here at Al oxa
Hospital won't be able to get it this is
a hospital normally that would have a
couple of hundred beds and doesn't
necessarily get to treat a lot of
patients there are now up to 800
patients and thousands of displaced
people living here as you can see all
around us there are patients and their
family members in the corridors in
hallways living with their blankets
family members um it makes it very
difficult to be able to move around even
to be able to actually even find your
patients but a lot of times
unfortunately
because there's no structure and there's
no system you actually don't know always
where your patients end up or where you
might be able to find them in order to
provide the treatment that they
require we're in the Pediatric Ward or
the children's Ward here uh which houses
infants and small babies all the way up
to kids about 12 years old as you can
see it's extremely overcrowded and one
of the Striking features uh that the
particularly young babies and infants
require is um formula and feeding
there's severe malnutrition especially
through both the children and the adult
population um as you can see there's no
room for these patients to be in beds
they're surrounded by their family
members in the hallways um it's very
difficult to be able to examine them
with privacy so unfortunately sometimes
we're having to examine patients and
speak to them in open hallways um and
that's just become an accepted part of
how we can provide care here for them
this war on children is absolutely
heartbreaking and soul shattering it's
very very difficult ult to uh actually
provide them any care so some of these
children don't actually have their
mother or their father or potentially
both parents they here being looked
after by extended family members um a
lot of them have had trapnel injuries
that are going to leave them with
amputations and debilitating um problems
for the rest of their lives now we're
walking from the older building to the
building that used to be the obstetric
ward that's now been converted to the
operating theaters building and we're
going to take a look inside on the Li
mited resources that are being provided
here in the operating theaters in all
the healthcare facilities inza there are
only a couple of hospitals that are
still partially and functional and this
will be one of them we just entered the
operating theater complex here at the
laa Hospital Dr Basher tell us more what
we're seeing here yeah so just very
quickly um on my left hand side here are
the recovery rooms where patients come
after they have finished their
operations um we can't necessarily show
you everything that's inside but there's
very limited resources there's not
necessarily the equipment to be able to
monitor them in terms of taking their
Vital Signs like blood pressure and
heart rate there's one main Corridor
that is both the entryway and the exit
for patients coming into the operating
rooms um and most of the time there are
four five six even up to 10 patients
just lining the corridor and it's very
difficult to actually move around what
are we seeing here what is this case
yeah so this is this is a young kid
that's obviously had severe burns from
an explosion or a blast injury um this
is a very common and unfortunate
scenario um a lot of these kids are in
severe pain because of their wounds
there isn't enough adequate analgesia to
be able to give them uh they have to
come daily down to the operating room to
get dressing changes because there isn't
enough adequate Supply on the wards to
be able to dress their wounds
appropriately um and they require care
actually that NE sometimes is
unnecessarily not able to be provided
here at ala Hospital tragedies find you
at every corner of AA hospital after
walking into the different Departments
of this Health Care Facility the only
remaining semi operational Health Care
Facility in the central area we couldn't
help but noticing the inadequacy of the
medical care available for people this
is hanim Mahmud from Ala Hospital in the
Central Area Gaza
Palestine make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer